README.md, before:

# 101-terraform-workshop
Repository for terraform workshop given by Anuj Jain @ajain-ee.


# step-1 : verify local setup
1. Run **terraform version** on the command line and verify it is 0.12.16. 
2. Get your AWS account access key and access secret ready.
3. Fork repository https://github.com/ajain-ee/101-terraform-workshop.git .
4. Checkout branch “step-1”.
5. Replace aws key and aws secret variable 
6. Run **terraform init**
7. Run **terraform plan**

# step-2 : Launch first ec2 instance on AWS
1. Checkout branch “step-2”. 
2. Extract hardcode access_key into variables like this:
   
   ```
    variable "aws_access_key" {
      default = ""
    }
    access_key = var.aws_access_key
    ``` 
3. Replace all other hardcoded values as well with variables.    
4. Set ami value to appropriate ami available in choice of region. 
   I am setting public ubuntu available in eu-east-1 "ami-04b9e92b5572fa0d1"
5. Set keyname and public_key value is your any open-ssh formatted public key. Using
   this key you can ssh into ec2 box.
6. Set subnet id from default vpc in your aws region.
7. Run **terraform plan**
8. Run **terraform apply**
9. Verify ec2 instance by doing ssh into ec2-instance using command.
   `
   ssh -i <path-to-private-key> ubuntu@public-ip-address-of-ec2-instance
   `

Commit message:

step-3 | migrate local state to s3.

README.md, after:

# 101-terraform-workshop
Repository for terraform workshop given by Anuj Jain @ajain-ee.


# step-1 : verify local setup
1. Run **terraform version** on the command line and verify it is 0.12.16. 
2. Get your AWS account access key and access secret ready.
3. Fork repository https://github.com/ajain-ee/101-terraform-workshop.git .
4. Checkout branch “step-1”.
5. Replace aws key and aws secret variable 
6. Run **terraform init**
7. Run **terraform plan**
8. Commit your changes on branch step-1.
9. Merge step-1 branch into master

# step-2 : Launch first ec2 instance on AWS
1. Checkout branch "step-2" and rebase with master. 
2. Extract hardcode access_key into variables like this:
   
   ```
    variable "aws_access_key" {
      default = ""
    }
    access_key = var.aws_access_key
    ``` 
3. Replace all other hardcoded values as well with variables.    
4. Set ami value to appropriate ami available in choice of region. 
   I am setting public ubuntu available in eu-east-1 "ami-04b9e92b5572fa0d1"
5. Set keyname and public_key value is your any open-ssh formatted public key. Using
   this key you can ssh into ec2 box.
6. Set subnet id from default vpc in your aws region.
7. Run **terraform plan**
8. Run **terraform apply**
9. Verify ec2 instance by doing ssh into ec2-instance using command.
   `
   ssh -i <path-to-private-key> ubuntu@public-ip-address-of-ec2-instance
   `    
10. Commit and Merge step-2 branch into master.   

# step-3 : Store terraform state into S3
1. Checkout branch "step-3" and rebase with master. 
2. Create a bucket "terraform-workshop" in you account. 
3. Set the following variables in terraform backend configuration
   ```
   backend "s3" {
       bucket = "terraform-workshop"
       region = ""
       key = "workshopstate/terraform.tfstate"
   }    
   ```     
4. Run **terraform init**, terraform will prompt your for state migration from local
   to remote location. press yes for migration. 
   
5. Run **terraform plan**
6. Run **terraform apply**
7. Commit and Merge step-3 branch into master.
